["If I Had A Heart" playing]
[indistinct chatter]
Jarl Thorkell!
-[Thorkell] King Olaf.
-Greetings!
-Welcome.
-I was surprised
to receive your summons.
Is it really true
that you want us all to vote
for a king of all Norway?
If it wasn't true
I wouldn't have wasted
your time by summoning
you here.
You are asking us all
to renounce
that which is most dear
and precious to us.
Our power.
Oh, Thorkell,
your power resides
in your prestige.
In the willingness
of your warriors to fight
and die for you.
That will not change.
All I am asking,
that there should be
an overlord,
to whom we could all
owe our allegiance.
A king of all Norway
who will defend us
from all external forces.
That is my dream.
Surely that's not
too much to ask, is it?
[horses approach]
[child making bird call]
[Lagertha] Thank the gods!
You're here.
[exhales]
But why?
I had a dream, Lagertha.
And in my dream,
your village was attacked.
So, I wanted to be with you.
You and Torvi's children.
I was afraid that
something had happened.
Hali is dead.
[exhales]
It was my fault.
I did not protect him.
I failed.
He's buried not far
from a village
which he tried to protect.
With all the others
who also died in the raid.
So it's true?
Your dream? Yes.
We were attacked by bandits.
The same bandits that
Bjorn branded and released.
Then, perhaps
Bjorn made a mistake?
He should never
have released them.
Don't talk of mistakes!
We all make mistakes,
sometimes for bad reasons
and sometimes for good ones.
In any case,
it is not important anymore.
What's important
is that I am certain,
since they did not manage
to steal our grain,
that they will attack
again soon.
It is a good thing
that we are here.
We have to make plans.
Even with your shield-maidens,
I'm not sure we can resist
White Hair and his bandits,
not a second time.
Those are not words
I ever expected to hear
from Lagertha,
the famous shield-maiden.
Perhaps that Lagertha
is already dead.
I buried her myself.
Then I had to dig her up again.
But she is not the same.
She can never be the same.
[women laughing]
[child making bird call]
[men grunting]
[Hvitserk] Come here!
Come on!
[laughs]
Yes, yes! Come on!
-Push!
-[grunting]
-Push and push and push! Here!
-[grunts]
Come on! Help me out!
Come on!
Come on, guys! Come on!
Go on! Help me!
Come on! Come on! Help me!
Yes! Well done! You!
You push! You! You push!
Push! Come on!
Push! Come on, help push!
Hvitserk! What is this?
This is one of the iron gates
that Ivar made
to protect the town.
But what do you want it for?
I need it
for my own protection!
It's the only way
to keep out the ghosts!
Go on! Push it! Come on!
Come on! Yes! Go on!
[indistinct chatter]
[girl making bird call]
Heh!
[woman] Inge has them.
[woman 2] Come,
Inge. Come.
Bring some more!
[man] Who did this?
Hi!
[woman 3 laughs]
[indistinct chatter]
Gunnhild.
[woman 4] Yeah. Keep going.
Yeah. One more.
[woman 5]
Bring it over here.
[Lagertha grunts]
[woman 5] Good, huh?
It's finished. Next one.
[girl making bird call]
[girl 2 making bird call]
They won't expect this.
No.
But who knows if it's enough?
Have you heard anything
from Bjorn?
I know he will return.
Yes.
[man] Yes, push against it.
That's it. Good.
Look!
[woman 2] Fasten it more!
Not with that--
Not with that rope,
with the good rope.
Yes, that's right.
[man 2] Hard work.
[woman 3] Oh, I'm tired.
[grunts]
Poor Asa.
[chuckles]
[woman] Smells good.
I cannot wait for that.
[woman 2] I was so thirsty.
[woman 1] Yes.
[woman 3] Too much.
[woman 1] It will be.
Worth the wait.
[woman 4]
Who does she think she is?
[woman 3] Of course.
It's a long way.
What is it that you see?
[Runa] I see myself, Lagertha.
That's how I was,
all those years ago.
That's how we all were.
[Runa] It's like seeing ghosts.
[Eira] For some reason,
I want to weep.
But for as much joy
to see myself again.
Come. Join our feast.
We will be
shield-maidens together.
Yes!
[women making bird calls]
[makes bird call]
[all laugh]
Skol!
[all] Skol!
[loud bang]
[breathing heavily]
[banging continues]
Go away!
Leave me alone! Go away!
[breathing heavily]
[whimpering]
[screams]
[Thora]
Look at me, Hvitserk.
Go away! Go away!
Ivar did this to me.
Look at me!
Don't be afraid.
Why have you come back here?
Why do you want to haunt me?
I want revenge.
The only person who can avenge
my death, Hvitserk, is you!
Tell me! Tell me how!
You have to kill Ivar.
Ivar killed me.
He killed my family.
You will do it, won't you?
You will avenge me?
-Yes.
-Promise.
Swear on your sacred arm ring.
[whimpering]
I swear.
I swear. I swear.
I... I told you, I swear!
[Viking] Pull!
[Viking 2] Keep pulling!
[Viking 3] Oars!
[Viking 1]
Prepare for the approach.
We are almost there!
[indistinct chatter]
[hammering]
[men laugh]
-[grunting]
-[crowd cheers]
I, uh... I would like
to propose a toast
to Bjorn Ironside.
This is our first meeting,
but over the years I've heard
all about your exploits
from the wanderers
and poets in my Great Hall.
It's a great honor
to meet you
in person at last
Skol.
[all] Skol.
You are too kind.
But I too have heard stories
of Thorkell the Tall
and his brothers
Herring and Earl Sigvald.
In a country such as ours,
as small as ours,
fame spreads easily.
So they say, Bjorn Ironside.
[Thorkell] So, the plan
is for all of us
to appoint you as king?
Elect him as king, elect.
That is our way.
In which case, King Olaf,
I insist that it must be
a real election.
And that anyone else,
be he a king or even
a simple Jarl like me,
can also stand, if they wish.
Oh, in principle, yes.
But you know
how we Norwegians are.
You give them a chance
to quarrel and to fight,
and then they will
quarrel and fight.
Still,
Jarl Thorkell has a point.
Yes. And I agree with him.
Personally, I would never
want to be made king
in an uncontested election.
I have no desire
to wear a hollow crown.
As you wish, Bjorn Ironside.
As you wish.
[grunting]
[crowd cheering]
[laughter]
[indistinct chatter]
Bjorn Ironside.
Jarl Hrolf.
Welcome.
I hope we have
the opportunity to talk.
I hope so too, Bjorn Ironside.
Really, I do.
Ah, King Hakon!
Bjorn Ironside.
You don't know this,
but I fought beside you
and your father
at the gates of Paris.
Ah!
I was a young man then,
and I still had a right hand.
What happened to your hand?
In a sea battle against him...
Thorkell the Tall.
I was boarding his ship.
The deck was slippery.
I put out my hand
to steady myself
and somebody took
the opportunity to remove it.
[Hakon chuckles]
But now it seems
we never have to fight again.
Not against each other.
Why fight our own countrymen?
It's what we've always done.
That doesn't make it
right or sensible.
The fact is,
we need to unify Norway
to withstand possible attacks
from our larger neighbors,
like Sweden or Denmark.
I agree, it does make
some sort of sense.
And to have a figurehead
like you, Bjorn Ironside,
huh?
Son of Ragnar,
who is known and respected
throughout our Viking world.
Makes even more sense,
I have to say.
You have my vote,
Bjorn Ironside.
Two more ships
have just arrived.
Who knew there were
so many kings and earls
in Norway?
It seems that they
grow on trees.
Yes. Let me greet
the newcomers.
I can explain our purpose
as well as you do.
Thank you, my friend.
[horse whinnies]
[Rus captain calling out]
My prince.
I'm sure you can hear me.
But you are probably counting
all the furrows
in the lands and the clouds
in the sky that belong to you.
But I want to talk
of something else.
I want to ask you
if you would like to play
a trick on poor Dir.
[Igor] What kind of trick,
my dear Boneless?
Something that will
amuse you, I hope.
I like to be amused.
Is it a magic trick?
I like magic tricks.
Yes. It's a magic trick.
What do you say?
Would you like
to help me do it?
What are we going to do,
my fellow king?
[chuckles]
[dog barking]
Guards!
Don't just stand there gawping.
Let's see what she's up to!
[guard 1] Who is she?
[breathing heavily]
Help me.
[struggling]
Go, go!
[gasps]
[Rus captain shouts]
Guards! Guards!
[guards shouting indistinctly]
[bell ringing]
[Ivar panting]
-[Ivar] Psst! Take him!
Take him.
-[woman] Dir!
[Dir breathing heavily]
[Dir] This is not
the last time, Ivar Lothbrok.
We shall meet again soon.
But for now, good night.
[Ivar] Good night.
Go.
[horse whinnies]
[breathing heavily]
Did we really do that?
[laughs]
Huh?
[Oleg]
I want to show you these.
I know you cannot read them
but let me explain
what they are.
These are legal documents,
giving the Rus ancient
legal title
to our Scandinavian homelands.
So that our invasion
has legitimate cause.
No. They are forgeries,
of course.
But a forged title, my friend,
is better than no title at all.
-[servant speaks indistinctly]
-Oh, our food!
Who are these?
The guards who allowed
my brother to escape.
We tortured them, of course.
What did they say?
[Oleg] They said...
they were deliberately
distracted by a naked woman
and left their posts.
They saw nothing else.
And now they never will.
I suppose you know nothing
about Dir's escape, do you?
Igor?
No.
You understand that
with Dir free,
you are in more danger
of being kidnapped than ever,
hmm?
Now I have a more
pleasant duty.
I am to be married again.
I want to introduce you
to my intended bride.
This is Princess Katia.
My dear Katia,
may I present to you
my cousin and ward,
Prince Igor.
[Katia] Prince.
[kisses hand]
And this is the Viking king
I told you about.
This is Ivar.
The famous Ivar the Boneless.
Princess.
King Ivar.
Let's eat.
You look as though
you have seen a ghost.
Believe me, I have.
[Oleg] Leave us.
Please, enjoy your food.
[indistinct chatter]
[Lagertha]
Make sure it's tight.
It has been a while, Lagertha.
Perhaps they are not
coming back after all?
I hope you're right.
But you don't believe it.
[Lagertha] No.
I think they will come.
[sighs]
[indistinct chatter]
Hmm. I want to consider it.
Yes, we'll talk.
-[Harald laughs]
-[inaudible conversation]
Ah, King Hakon.
Speaking of a warrior. Welcome.
Good to see you here.
Jarl Hrolf.
Good to see you.
[indistinct chatter]
[guard] The gate!
Move along! Move along!
Move along!
Move along. Move along.
Hurry up. Hurry.
Hurry up. Hurry up!
Go! Go!
[indistinct chatter]
[crowd exclaiming]
Princess.
[sighs] I've been waiting
for the opportunity
to talk to you privately.
Surely you understand why
I need to talk to you.
Oleg is playing games with me.
And why do you say so,
Ivar the Boneless?
You are Freydis.
Freydis?
I don't understand.
Neither do I.
But it is true.
And you and I...
were once married.
Were we really?
And what happened to us?
[sighs]
[hammering]
[indistinct chatter]
[coughing]
Give me.
How do you pay?
You have not paid for days.
I do not give for free.
Give me.
[sighs]
Come on.
You must pay.
Later.
I'll ask my brother, Ubbe.
You know Ubbe, right?
You trust him?
-Yes.
-Good.
But I don't trust you.
So, I give you nothing.
[whispers]
Ale. And mushrooms. Now.
[gasping]
I'll take that.
No.
Then you get nothing.
Only to suffer.
[Hvitserk sniffs]
Come on.
More. More.
[grunts]
[tapping]
[Seer in distorted voice]
If you came this way,
taking any route,
starting from anywhere,
at any time or at any season,
it would always be the same.
[whispers] Is that really you?
Could that be you, O Wise One?
[Seer in distorted voice]
We are anyway
where we are supposed to be.
I'm not supposed to be here.
Not now, not here.
I had things to do.
Perhaps what you thought
you came here for
is only a shell,
a husk of meaning
from which the purpose breaks
only when it is fulfilled,
if at all.
Either you had no purpose
or the purpose is beyond
the end you figured.
[hesitantly]
I have a purpose. It's just...
at this time, at this place,
I tend to forget.
[Seer] Do not weep, Hvitserk,
son of Ragnar.
There are other places
also at the world's end,
some at the sea jaws,
or over a dark lake,
in a desert or city.
You're driving me mad!
I drive you mad,
if it makes any difference...
because you are not yet
fit for your purpose.
Your life resembles death.
[yelling] I am dead.
No. Let me repeat,
so you can understand.
Either you had no purpose
or the purpose is beyond
the end you figured.
Altered in fulfillment.
Altered in fulfillment,
Hvitserk.
Altered in fulfillment.
[mumbles]
Altered in fulfillment?
[Hvitserk gasps]
[indistinct mumbling]
[indistinct chatter]
[Kjetill] An amazing sight,
King Olaf.
[Olaf] So it should be.
For this is
an amazing occasion.
Never before have we voted
for a king of all Norway.
It's been a dream of many.
Now, now brought to fruition.
I hope that things
will proceed smoothly.
Do you know any reason
why it should not?
[distant drumming]
[crowd cheering]
[Kjetill] Bjorn.
What?
Nothing.
But may the gods be with you.
[sighing]
[drums beating]
[rhythmic drumming]
[indistinct drumming]
Today is an extraordinary
and a unique day
in the history
and saga of our country.
Never before have our rulers
willingly gathered together
to elect one of their numbers
as King of Kings.
King of all Norway!
Many have said that
such a thing is impossible!
That our rulers
have never been able
to see beyond
their own self-interest!
Yet, now, with your own eyes,
you will see the impossible
begin to happen!
When all our votes
are cast into the sea,
we will know
the identity of the man
always fated to be the king
of all Norway!
Each of these runes
represents an earl or a king.
You shall know them
by their color.
For example,
Earl Thorkell
is represented by a blue rune.
King Hakon by a green.
Bjorn Ironside by a red.
King Harald by a yellow.
It falls to me
to cast the first vote.
I vote...
for Bjorn Ironside
as king
of all Norway!
-[drums beating]
-[crowd cheering]
[indistinct chatter]
You are waiting for
someone to return?
Yes.
Your lover?
Did he go with Bjorn?
Yes.
I know how you are feeling.
You can't.
You're the wife of Ubbe,
and I am a servant.
Even if Bjorn survives--
Bjorn?
You are in love with Bjorn?
Then, believe me, I do know.
I stared out to sea and waited
for Bjorn many times.
And each time he came back,
he was always further away.
It will be different with me.
Yes.
And I...
will also vote
for Bjorn Ironside to be
king of all Norway.
[crowd cheering]
Go on.
We were traveling along
the Silk Road.
We had gone many rost
and talked to many traders
from different countries,
when we came
to the kingdom of Rus.
I have heard of it.
It was founded by Rus Vikings.
[envoy] Yes. Some of them
could still speak our language.
We were invited into
one of their principal towns,
called Novgorod.
Novgorod is a rich place,
for these Rus are
very successful warriors,
hunters, and traders.
And they were anxious
to do deals with us,
for they said that
we have many things
which they wanted.
[Torvi] But I don't understand.
If you were so successful,
then why did you
come back so early?
Surely your mission
is not yet concluded.
[envoy] No.
But we all felt that
someone should return
here at once.
To report your success?
[envoy] No.
To report something else.
For while we were in Novgorod,
we learned that someone else
was staying with the Rus.
Indeed, living at the palace
in another town called Kiev
with their leader, Prince Oleg.
Ivar?
[envoy] Yes.
They told us
that King Ivar the Boneless,
son of Ragnar Lothbrok,
was their guest.
You have done well
to bring us this news.
I am not surprised
to hear that my little brother
is still alive.
Go, and drink.
[envoy] Thank you, Ubbe.
What did you see?
You must tell Hvitserk.
For better or worse,
he needs to know.
[man] Tighter!
Hvitserk!
[Ivar in distorted voice]
I'm here, Brother!
[rumbling]
[whimpering]
[panting]
[Ivar in distorted voice]
Is it true?
Did you jump ship
to be near me?
[panting]
[cracking]
[Ivar in distorted voice] Not because you loved me.
[Hvitserk whimpers]
[sobbing]
But because you needed to be close enough to kill me?
[wood cracking]
[Ivar laughs evilly]
[hisses]
[music playing]